# Radial_velocity_method_to_find_semi-major_axis
Using the radial velocity method to find the semi-major axis and mass of planets

The first ever exo-planet to be discovered was on the 9th of January 1992 by Aleksander Wolszczan and Dale Frail. [1] They had discovered not 1 but 2 rocky planets orbiting a pulsar in the constellation of Virgo [1]. Since then, there has been an exponential growth of exoplanets discovered with the number reaching 5000 in 2022! [1] This area is increasingly important to study and research for a variety of reasons. It allows physicists to understand better where we came from and if the process that our solar system has gone through is universal. [2] Also, it might be the key to understanding one of the biggest questions, in recent years, are there other intelligent life forms? [2] This report has data for 3 stars. On the mass of the stars, the radial velocities of the stars in meters per second, the time in days, and the uncertainties of the radial velocity also in meters per second. The aim of this report is to plot the data and a fit of the data, to then use this to determine the mass of the orbiting planet 
 as well as the semi-major axis (a) of the planet's orbit. This will be achieved by solving Kepler's equation via a series of root-finding methods to then be able to compute values for the radial velocity for a fit line of the data with parameters established through trial and error. The radial velocity accuracy of the best-fit parameters will be assessed by the 
 method by seeing how changes in the parameters affect the fit line. Once the established accuracy is obtained the parameters in turn will be used to compute a and Mpsin(I).

